---
layout: post
title:      "React: First Impressions"
date:       2019-11-27 09:41:26 -0500
permalink:  react_first_impressions
---


React as a framework feels like it's going to save my javascript experience. While using javascript is powerful and essential to a truly interactive website, vanilla JS feels lackluster and disorganized coming from Ruby. However, React fixes almost all of this. It turns the language into something that just works. It abstracts so many needless and tiring processes to help you get your webpage functional as fast as possible. This ranges from setting up your environment to quickly creating components and keeping track of them. It also does this in, what I percieve as, an effecient and fast manner. React also does all this in a familiar, object oriented way, with separation of concerns, reusable logic, etc. As someone coming from Rails, one such similarity, the component lifecycle methods, bears a striking resemblence to the object lifecycle methods of Rails. It's so familiar and easy to use that if I had used it for my first JS project, I think I would have taken half or less time to complete it. However, forcing myself to use vanilla javascript definitely gave me a deeper understanding for the language itself which I find immensely useful. All in all, I'm excited to see where my first project with React will go as I feel like it enables me to do so much more without worrying about the tedious stuff.# React-Rails Final Project

For my React-Redux frontend / Rails backend project I decided to remake a previous project using the new technologies and skills I learned. I first began by converting my backend to an API version by making a new rails project with the API setting. After that I ported over the tests and models. While it felt like something was going to go wrong, thanks to the using TDD when I originally made the app I could run up the test suite to make sure everything model related still worked as it did before. Then I began creating the React app while coming back to the backend to set up API endpoints.

As for test driven development, I decided against using it for this project.  When I started, I was just learning react hooks for the first time, and various other technologies were still very fresh. I felt it was better to allow myself the freedom of figuring it out as I go, rather then rigurously planning out every step with a test framework I was unfamiliar with too. However, now that I have completed a project with React, I can start a different React project while focusing my learning on the test framework.

One thing I learned while on this project, though, is how much I like hooks. When I had first started learning React, I mean I was thankful to not still be using vanilla js, but it still felt very boilerplate heavy. While there were alternatives to writing all the boilerplate, it often felt as if you'd eventually need to convert your component to the full class component. Hooks however, drastically reduce this problem, using simple, often one line statements, to get what a class component needs multiple lines to do. It cuts out a vast amount of repitition for the sake of getting to the point of what you're actually trying to do.

Coming back from this project, I'm excited to create new projects in React and redo some other ones. I feel like the ability to capitalize on the benifits of javascript while having a sane level of organization is really fleshed out in React.
